README.md, before:

# Benten
_(This software is in the planning stage)_

This is a [Language server](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) and 
workflow helper for the [Common Workflow Language](https://www.commonwl.org/) written in Python.

Many advanced CWL users are comfortable creating tools and workflows "by hand"
using a plain text editor. When creating complex enough workflows there are some 
activities that can get tedious, repetitive and error prone when done manually. 
_Benten_ is a language server for the Common Workflow Language that automates
and simplifies these tasks. (List of [tools] that support LSP).

[tools]: https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/implementors/tools/


[![Tests](https://travis-ci.com/rabix/benten.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/rabix/benten)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/rabix/benten/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/rabix/benten)


# Proposed Features
- Auto completion of step and port names
- On demand insertion of CWL section templates (process objects, inputs, outputs, steps)
- CWL Syntax checking and error notifcations
- Refactoring of CWL documents
  - Renaming workflow components (input ids, step ids)
  - Imploding of a set of workflow steps into a subworkflow
  - Exporting of individual steps or groups of steps into external workflow documents
  - Opening of subworkflows in new editor tabs
- For editors that support it, a diagram pane
  - The pane shows a graphical depiction of the workflow
  - The pane allows dropping on local CWL files onto the workflow, to be added as steps

# License
Apache 2.0

# Thanks
- [The Sourcegraph Python language server][src-pyls] source code. Some components have been used
  with light modification and some have been studied to understand the Language Server Protocol

[src-pyls]: https://github.com/sourcegraph/python-langserver


# What's in a name? 

**Saraswati** is the Hindu goddess of learning and knowledge and a long time ago 
she visited Japan, where she is known as [Benzaiten] (**Benten** for short) and 
her sitar has morphed into a Japanese lute but she has kept some of her many arms.

Benzaiten is the goddess of everything that flows: water, time, words, speech, 
eloquence, music and by extension, knowledge. Therefore _Benten_ is an 
appropriate goddess for scientific workflow developers.

[Benzaiten]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benzaiten

Commit message:

Write up steps to test server with vim

README.md, after:

# Benten
_(This software is in the planning stage)_

This is a [Language server](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) and 
workflow helper for the [Common Workflow Language](https://www.commonwl.org/) written in Python.

Many advanced CWL users are comfortable creating tools and workflows "by hand"
using a plain text editor. When creating complex enough workflows there are some 
activities that can get tedious, repetitive and error prone when done manually. 
_Benten_ is a language server for the Common Workflow Language that automates
and simplifies these tasks. (List of [tools] that support LSP).

[tools]: https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/implementors/tools/


[![Tests](https://travis-ci.com/rabix/benten.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/rabix/benten)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/rabix/benten/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/rabix/benten)


# Proposed Features
- Auto completion of step and port names
- On demand insertion of CWL section templates (process objects, inputs, outputs, steps)
- CWL Syntax checking and error notifcations
- Refactoring of CWL documents
  - Renaming workflow components (input ids, step ids)
  - Imploding of a set of workflow steps into a subworkflow
  - Exporting of individual steps or groups of steps into external workflow documents
  - Opening of subworkflows in new editor tabs
- For editors that support it, a diagram pane
  - The pane shows a graphical depiction of the workflow
  - The pane allows dropping on local CWL files onto the workflow, to be added as steps

# Testing with vim
Currently (2019.01) the server is under development and it doesn't do anything useful. 
[Here's how I'm testing it with `vim`](vim/Readme.md).


# License
Apache 2.0

# Thanks
- [The Sourcegraph Python language server][src-pyls] source code. Some components have been used
  with light modification and some have been studied to understand the Language Server Protocol

[src-pyls]: https://github.com/sourcegraph/python-langserver


# What's in a name? 

**Saraswati** is the Hindu goddess of learning and knowledge and a long time ago 
she visited Japan, where she is known as [Benzaiten] (**Benten** for short) and 
her sitar has morphed into a Japanese lute but she has kept some of her many arms.

Benzaiten is the goddess of everything that flows: water, time, words, speech, 
eloquence, music and by extension, knowledge. Therefore _Benten_ is an 
appropriate goddess for scientific workflow developers.

[Benzaiten]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benzaiten
