vscode-client/Readme.md, before:

# Common Workflow Language extension for Visual Studio Code

This is an alpha release of CWL support in VS Code via the Benten CWL
[language server].

[language server]: https://langserver.org/


# Features

![2019.04.23 screenshot](./benten-demo-1000px.png)

- CWL syntax highlighting, CWL grammar parsing _(1)_
- Embedded JS expression highlighting _(2)_
- Navigate to linked sub-workflows and `$include`s _(3)_
- Outline view (Symbols) + Step symbols _(4)_
- Code snippets for process types, inputs, requirements
- Error squiggles indicating YAML and CWL issues


# Server installation

This plugin requires the Benten CWL Language Server to be installed.

Benten requires [Python 3.7 or later](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

If you will be installing from source you will need
[git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) on your system

A neat way to install `benten` in a virtual env (isolating it from your
system python) and still be able to call it as a regular executable is
to use `pipx`

```
pip3 install pipx  # in case you don't have pipx
pipx install --spec git+https://github.com/rabix/benten.git benten
```

_Note: `pipx` installs the executables in `$HOME/.local/bin`
(%HOMEPATH%\.local\bin for Windows). This needs to be added to your PATH
env variable_

To install from develop branch (or some other branch): 
```
pipx install -spec git+https://github.com/rabix/benten.git@develop benten
```

Or, if you have cloned the repository and want to play with the server
code itself:

```
pipx install -e benten
```

<div align="right">
<sub>(c) 2019 Seven Bridges Genomics. Rabix is a registered trademark of Seven Bridges Genomics</sub>
</div>

Commit message:

Improve presentation on VS Marketplace
1. Improve banner color (now matches Rabix.io)
2. Fix broken image and other links
3. Improve summary text

vscode-client/Readme.md, after:

# VS Code plugin for Rabix/Benten CWL language server

![Screenshot](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/06c93fa4201b808ebe9176d97dce77bedd0bd7f7/68747470733a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f66674a4f58756d2e706e67)

- CWL syntax highlighting, CWL grammar parsing _(1)_
- Embedded JS expression highlighting _(2)_
- Navigate to linked sub-workflows and `$include`s _(3)_
- Outline view (Symbols) + Step symbols _(4)_
- Auto-complete for ports, requirements and field names
- Error squiggles indicating YAML and CWL issues including connection
  issues


# Server installation

This plugin requires the [Benten CWL Language Server](https://github.com/rabix/benten) to be installed.

Benten requires [Python 3.7 or later](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

If you will be installing from source you will need
[git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) on your system

A neat way to install `benten` in a virtual env (isolating it from your
system python) and still be able to call it as a regular executable is
to use `pipx`

```
pip3 install pipx  # in case you don't have pipx
pipx install --spec git+https://github.com/rabix/benten.git benten
```

_Note: `pipx` installs the executables in `$HOME/.local/bin`
(`%HOMEPATH%\.local\bin` for Windows). This needs to be added to your
PATH env variable_

To install from develop branch (or some other branch): 
```
pipx install -spec git+https://github.com/rabix/benten.git@develop benten
```

Or, if you have cloned the repository and want to play with the server
code itself:

```
pipx install -e benten
```

<div align="right">
<sub>(c) 2019 Seven Bridges Genomics. Rabix is a registered trademark of Seven Bridges Genomics</sub>
</div>
